Matt/python rust tracing integration (#11842)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/python/integrations/rust_tracing/index.mdx

---
title: Rust Tracing
description: "Learn about the Rust Tracing integration and how to get performance data for Rust native extensions."
---

`RustTracingIntegration` acts as a bridge between the Sentry Python SDK and Rust's [`tracing` framework](https://tracing.rs/). With this integration, traces that begin in Python can extend into Rust seamlessly.

<Alert level="warning">

This integration assumes that your Rust native extension runs synchronously on the current thread. Emitting tracing data from other threads or Rust code that uses `async`/`.await` may corrupt the current trace.

</Alert>

## Install

`RustTracingIntegration` requires setup in both Python and Rust to work.

### Rust
In your Rust native extension, you'll need three crates as dependencies in `Cargo.toml`:
- [`tracing-subscriber`](https://crates.io/crates/tracing_subscriber)
- [`pyo3`](https://crates.io/crates/pyo3)
- [`pyo3-python-tracing-subscriber`](https://crates.io/crates/pyo3_python_tracing_subscriber)

### Python
In your Python project, you'll need to install the Sentry SDK from PyPI.
```bash
pip install --upgrade sentry-sdk
```

## Configure

> As with installing, `RustTracingIntegration` requires some work in both Python and Rust.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with installation, configuring `RustTracingIntegration` requires some work in both Python and Rust.
```

```python
from sentry_sdk.integrations.rust_tracing import (
    default_event_type_mapping,
    default_span_filter,
    EventTypeMapping,
    RustTracingIntegration,
)

import my_rust_extension

def custom_event_type_mapping(metadata: dict) -> EventTypeMapping:
    print(metadata)
    return default_event_type_mapping(metadata)

def custom_span_filter(metadata: dict) -> bool:
    print(metadata)
    return default_span_filter(metadata)

sentry_sdk.init(
    # ...
    integrations=[
        RustTracingIntegration(
            "my_rust_extension",
            my_rust_extension.initialize_tracing,
            event_type_mapping=custom_event_type_mapping,
            span_filter=custom_span_filter,
        ),
    ],
)
```

To see the results on [sentry.io](https://sentry.io), go to the Traces section for your project and search for a Python span that calls a function from your Rust native extension. If the integration is working and the Rust function is instrumented with the Rust `tracing` framework, then the Python span will have a Rust child, and the Rust child may have a whole tree of Rust spans beneath it.

> The `pyo3-python-tracing-subscriber` crate has [a working example of a Sentry integration](https://github.com/codecov/pyo3-python-tracing-subscriber/tree/main/demo).

Author: ahh great catch! will update. i drafted this before moving the repo from `codecov` to `getsentry`, and it doesn't 404 for me because i still can access the old private copy :v

## Options

`RustTracingIntegration` accepts a few arguments:
- `identifier` (required)

  A unique identifier for this native extension. If your project uses more than one Rust native extension, each of them needs its own `RustTracingIntegration`.

- `initializer` (required)

  A function from your native extension that `RustTracingIntegration` can call to subscribe to `tracing` events.

  See the `initialize_tracing` example in [the _Configure_ section above](#configure)

- `event_type_mapping` (optional)

  A function that decides what type of Sentry event to create for a given `tracing` event.

  It takes a single argument: a dictionary containing data from [`tracing::Metadata`](https://docs.rs/tracing/latest/tracing/struct.Metadata.html).

  It returns a `sentry_sdk.integrations.rust_tracing.EventTypeMapping`.

>   Uses `sentry_sdk.integrations.rust_tracing.default_event_type_mapping` by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It uses `sentry_sdk.integrations.rust_tracing.default_event_type_mapping` by default.
```
